# Round 1

## Links

  * [GitHub](https://github.com/stschindler/money_joe)

## Journal

### R1D3 (2018-01-15)

Finally, I'm able to continue on my journey. Unfortunately during the last
weekend, I haven't had time that I could spend on the challenge. This might
become the usual case for weekends, as I mostly try to dedicate time to my
family.

But that's fine, as that won't hold me back from just continuing on this
beautiful Monday. ;-)

I continued working on the Docker setup and early recognized that I need some
more services besides the API/app server: A CDN webserver that serves the
Django admin static files, and a reverse proxy that routes all incoming
requests either to the app or CDN server.

Granted, I know such setups from production systems and projects already, so
this was easier for me than for beginners. But I was able to learn some stuff
in the area of Docker Stack and Docker Compose.

The stack does *not* contain a service for the database. I tend to keep these
outside of deployable stacks.

I have also setup separate Git repositories for all the sub-projects, and one
"mother" repository that holds sub-modules plus the Docker Stack config file.
Makefiles help with building all Docker images.

Tomorrow I'm going to setup a Docker Compose file solely for development, which
will then of course include a database service as well.

  * **Hours on the record for today:** 2:45 h
  * **Mood:** Super motivated.
  * **Progress:** Finished what I wanted to finish — great progress.
  * **Thoughts, facts, experiences:**
    * Albeit being a long-time and intensive Docker user, it's the first time
      I really got my hands dirty with Compose and Stack.
    * Putting together a small stack of some Nginx and Gunicorn services was
      very easy and straightforward.

### R1D2 (2018-01-11)

I published the source code repository at
[GitHub](https://github.com/stschindler/money_joe-api). I checked (again) OSS
licenses and chose the AGPL for maximum _enforced_ freedom. ;-)

As announced yesterday, I started setting up my project — which I call
_MoneyJoe_ — for Heroku. Without success. Heroku wasn't cool with me putting my
sources under _src_. Feeling that kind of restrictions (and not being in the
mood of looking for workarounds/fixes), I quickly chose to drop Heroku.

Instead I'm focussing more on what I already know much better: Docker. I
haven't really made use of Compose and Stacks yet, so that's why I'm targeting
as my learning exercise.

The Docker images are built on Alpine, a very lightweight Linux distribution.
I'm using a multi-stage build to reduce the image size by about 50% (200 MB to
100 MB, thanks to GCC and development files needed for building the Postgres
Python extension).

I was able to finish the Dockerfile, but it's far from being complete yet. I
will have to add a compose/stack configuration file for spooling up a full
environment that allows for easy demoing — my initial goal. ;-)

  * **Hours on the record for today:** 1:00 h
  * **Mood:** Started motivated, became frustrated, ended neutral
  * **Progress:** Less than expected
  * **Thoughts, facts, experiences:**
    * Heroku was a bad decision for me. I tried Heroku in the past and simply
      forgot about the restrictions. Avoidable!
    * Docker still is an awesome experience — I'm very glad for multi-stage
      builds.
    * Looking forward to deploying a MoneyJoe stack to the demo server.

### R1D1 (2018-01-10)

Set up the repository and started the #100daysofcode challenge. \m/

I decided to finally start a project for housekeeping. I've been using a Google
Spreadsheet for years, and it works, but it's like always with spreadsheets:
They start to get annoying very quickly, and its UI is a no-go for my wife.
Also it sucks to be used from mobile devices.

I've always wanted to have a nice web app for that task, that my wife can also
use. It's a very hard requirement, because as long as I'm the only one being
able to feed the spreadsheet, I'll be doomed with copying over all those
receipts.

So my ultimate goal is this:

  1. API: Written in Python, using Django and GraphQL.
  2. Web app: Mobile first, PWA (Progressive Web App), using React.

I have created the project already, wrote quite some models and made sure to
have nice admin interfaces everywhere, so I can test and play around.

The next step will be making the API ready to be deployed to Heroku. I've never
really used Heroku, and I want to use the #100daysofcode challenge to learn
some new stuff, of course!

Why the next step already? Simple: Demoing! I want to publish a new version
every couple of days, if not every day.

  * **Hours on the record for today:** 1:30 h
  * **Mood:** Very motivated and focused
  * **Progress:** Great
  * **Thoughts, facts, experiences:**
    * Setting up the project was dead-easy — thanks again Django. :-)
    * Forcing myself to focus led to great productivity.
    * Looking forward to tomorrow.
